README.md, before:

# University CRM
Customer relationship management for university. Accounting students, teachers and groups, faculty, departments, auditories, subjects. Forming timetable items. 

## Usage

### Compile project
For compile project put files in folder "src/main/java" Use next command in command line:
```
mvn compile
```

### Create execute jar 
For create execute jar file and type in the following command and hit "Enter" Then get jar file
```
mvn clean install
```

### Tests and validate checkstyle
For starting checkstyle audit 
Use command and get "Success" (Audit done)!
```
mvn validate
```
For test use command and get "Success"!
```
mvn test
```
For starting integration tests, unit tests and checkstyle audit
Use command and get "Success"!
```
mvn verify
```
## Database
Database located in file 'university' in H2 type. Test database in memory H2 and named 'university_test'
Login and password in application.properties file

## Libraries
Use libraries from maven pom.xml file. 

### Run project
For run project type following command by maven
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```
For run project type following command by console
```
java -jar task-university-java8-api-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
Link to start on localhost in web browser:
```
http://localhost:8080/
```
### REST interface
REST API in JSON format
 
### Swagger
For display Swagger documentation for the REST interface go to
link at swagger page: 
```
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html
```
## Docker
For build and deployment by Docker should use general commands for Docker-compose:
```
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
docker-compose down
```
After deployment will expose:
```
port:8080
```

## History
#### Task 8 - Decompose university
Decomposit university: student, teacher, group, auditory, schedule for student and teacher. UML diagram.
Branch dev, src/main/java/resources/uml_structure_university.png 
#### Task 9 - Domain layer
Created JAVA project based on University UML class diagram from the previous task.
Implemented domain logic for University.
Writed JUnit tests for the created application.
Branch dev
#### Task 10 - DAO layer
Created plain JDBC based DAO for decomposed domain objects using DriverManager.
Created sql_scheme.png. Created DAO layer. 
Branch: task10
#### Task 11 - Exceptions and Logging
Added custom exceptions and logging.
Branch: task10
#### Task 12 - Maven
Converted current project to Maven format. Added checkstyle plugin
Branch: taskMaven
#### Task 13 - User Interface-1
Created status pages (read data from dao - show it in JSP). Added servlets for show objects. Added flyway plugin.
Branch: task13
#### Task 14 - User Interface-2
Created CRUD pages for decomposed domain objects (servlets + JSP). Added validator for objects.
Branch: task14
#### Task 15 - Data Source
Created DataSource in web-project configuration files. Switch DAO layer to lookup DataSource by JNDI name and use it instead of simple JDBC connection.
Branch: task15
#### Task 16 - Spring IoC
Rewrite DAO code to inject DataSource to all DAO objects using Spring IoC framework.
Branch: task16
#### Task 17 - Hibernate
Rewrite the DAO layer. Use Hibernate instead of Spring JDBC.
Add for JPA Criteria query metamodel generator. 
Also for work with IDE need to add as source Build Path folder target/generated-sources/annotation
Branch: task17
#### Task 17 additions
Add Sonar Lint plugin to eclipse
Add Spring MVC
Add Thymeleaf
Branch: task17.2
#### Task 18 - Spring Boot
Convert application to Spring Boot
For starting project copy jar file on web-server. And execute next command:
```
 mvn clean package spring-boot:repackage
 java -jar target/{name of war file}.jar
```
Branch: task18
#### Task 19 - Spring Data JPA
Rewrite the DAO layer. Use Spring Data JPA instead of Hibernate.
Branch: task19
#### Task 20 - - Validation
Add validation to your models. It could be name validation, time validation, number of students in groups, etc. Ask your mentor for validations that should be implemented in your code.
Branch: task20
#### Task 21 - REST
Add REST Endpoints to your project. All UI functionality should be available in the REST endpoints
Branch: task21
#### Task 22 - Swagger
Add Swagger documentation to your project. 
link to swagger page: 
```
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html
```
Branch: task22
#### Task 23 - Spring Boot Tests
Writed Integration and System tests using Spring Boot Test, H2 DB (it is possible to use Database Rider)
Branch: task23

#### Issue#1 Analize of decompose University.
Fix the UML diagram for application. Remove bidirectional links.
Branch: task101

#### Issue#2 Fix model
Fix model based on University UML diagram. Create tests for model.
Branch: task102

#### Issue#3 Create DAO layer (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type)
Create dao layer and tests for (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type). Create tests for dao.
Branch: task103

#### Issue#4 Create service layer (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type)
Create service layer and tests for (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type). Create tests for services.
Branch: task104

#### Issue#6 Create DAO layer (TimetableItem)
Create DAO layer (TimetableItem). Create tests for dao.
Branch: task106

#### Issue#7 Create service layer(TimetableItem)
Create service layer and tests
Branch: task107

#### Issue#5 Create UI 
Create UI (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type)
Branch: task105

#### Issue#8 Add to UI finder form 
Add to UI finder form to timetableItems, teacher, student page
Branch: task108

#### Issue#9 Add localization
Add to front-end localization files
Branch: issue9

#### Issue#6 in GitHub Migrate to H2 database
Migrate to H2 database
Branch: issue6

#### Issue#14 create executable jar file
Create executable jar file
Branch: issue14

### Issue#20 Need to deploy by Docker.
Added docker compose for build and deployment.
Branch: issue20

## Author
With best regards, Mykola Afanasiev!

Commit message:

Issue 23: Add to Readme file description of second approach to deployment

README.md, after:

# University CRM
Customer relationship management for university. Accounting students, teachers and groups, faculty, departments, auditories, subjects. Forming timetable items. 

## Usage

### Approaches to deployment
Project has two approaches to deployment.
The first one located in 'master' branch. It combines tomcat and H2 DB as one part, and it starts (deploy) together. DB is H2-file type.
The second one located in 'docker_postgres' branch. It approaches based on deployment two separate part for tomcat and postgres DB. DB is Postgres type.

### Compile project
For compile project put files in folder "src/main/java" Use next command in command line:
```
mvn compile
```

### Create execute jar 
For create execute jar file and type in the following command and hit "Enter" Then get jar file
```
mvn clean install
```

### Tests and validate checkstyle
For starting checkstyle audit 
Use command and get "Success" (Audit done)!
```
mvn validate
```
For test use command and get "Success"!
```
mvn test
```
For starting integration tests, unit tests and checkstyle audit
Use command and get "Success"!
```
mvn verify
```
## Database
Database located in file 'university' in H2 type. Test database in memory H2 and named 'university_test'
Login and password in application.properties file

## Libraries
Use libraries from maven pom.xml file. 

### Run project
For run project type following command by maven
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```
For run project type following command by console
```
java -jar task-university-java8-api-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
Link to start on localhost in web browser:
```
http://localhost:8080/
```
### REST interface
REST API in JSON format
 
### Swagger
For display Swagger documentation for the REST interface go to
link at swagger page: 
```
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html
```
## Docker
For build and deployment by Docker should use general commands for Docker-compose:
```
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up
docker-compose down
```
After deployment will expose:
```
port:8080
```

## History
#### Task 8 - Decompose university
Decomposit university: student, teacher, group, auditory, schedule for student and teacher. UML diagram.
Branch dev, src/main/java/resources/uml_structure_university.png 
#### Task 9 - Domain layer
Created JAVA project based on University UML class diagram from the previous task.
Implemented domain logic for University.
Writed JUnit tests for the created application.
Branch dev
#### Task 10 - DAO layer
Created plain JDBC based DAO for decomposed domain objects using DriverManager.
Created sql_scheme.png. Created DAO layer. 
Branch: task10
#### Task 11 - Exceptions and Logging
Added custom exceptions and logging.
Branch: task10
#### Task 12 - Maven
Converted current project to Maven format. Added checkstyle plugin
Branch: taskMaven
#### Task 13 - User Interface-1
Created status pages (read data from dao - show it in JSP). Added servlets for show objects. Added flyway plugin.
Branch: task13
#### Task 14 - User Interface-2
Created CRUD pages for decomposed domain objects (servlets + JSP). Added validator for objects.
Branch: task14
#### Task 15 - Data Source
Created DataSource in web-project configuration files. Switch DAO layer to lookup DataSource by JNDI name and use it instead of simple JDBC connection.
Branch: task15
#### Task 16 - Spring IoC
Rewrite DAO code to inject DataSource to all DAO objects using Spring IoC framework.
Branch: task16
#### Task 17 - Hibernate
Rewrite the DAO layer. Use Hibernate instead of Spring JDBC.
Add for JPA Criteria query metamodel generator. 
Also for work with IDE need to add as source Build Path folder target/generated-sources/annotation
Branch: task17
#### Task 17 additions
Add Sonar Lint plugin to eclipse
Add Spring MVC
Add Thymeleaf
Branch: task17.2
#### Task 18 - Spring Boot
Convert application to Spring Boot
For starting project copy jar file on web-server. And execute next command:
```
 mvn clean package spring-boot:repackage
 java -jar target/{name of war file}.jar
```
Branch: task18
#### Task 19 - Spring Data JPA
Rewrite the DAO layer. Use Spring Data JPA instead of Hibernate.
Branch: task19
#### Task 20 - - Validation
Add validation to your models. It could be name validation, time validation, number of students in groups, etc. Ask your mentor for validations that should be implemented in your code.
Branch: task20
#### Task 21 - REST
Add REST Endpoints to your project. All UI functionality should be available in the REST endpoints
Branch: task21
#### Task 22 - Swagger
Add Swagger documentation to your project. 
link to swagger page: 
```
http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html
```
Branch: task22
#### Task 23 - Spring Boot Tests
Writed Integration and System tests using Spring Boot Test, H2 DB (it is possible to use Database Rider)
Branch: task23

#### Issue#1 Analize of decompose University.
Fix the UML diagram for application. Remove bidirectional links.
Branch: task101

#### Issue#2 Fix model
Fix model based on University UML diagram. Create tests for model.
Branch: task102

#### Issue#3 Create DAO layer (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type)
Create dao layer and tests for (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type). Create tests for dao.
Branch: task103

#### Issue#4 Create service layer (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type)
Create service layer and tests for (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type). Create tests for services.
Branch: task104

#### Issue#6 Create DAO layer (TimetableItem)
Create DAO layer (TimetableItem). Create tests for dao.
Branch: task106

#### Issue#7 Create service layer(TimetableItem)
Create service layer and tests
Branch: task107

#### Issue#5 Create UI 
Create UI (Faculty, Teacher, Department, Subject, Lecture, Auditory, Auditory Type)
Branch: task105

#### Issue#8 Add to UI finder form 
Add to UI finder form to timetableItems, teacher, student page
Branch: task108

#### Issue#9 Add localization
Add to front-end localization files
Branch: issue9

#### Issue#6 in GitHub Migrate to H2 database
Migrate to H2 database
Branch: issue6

#### Issue#14 create executable jar file
Create executable jar file
Branch: issue14

### Issue#20 Need to deploy by Docker.
Added docker compose for build and deployment.
Branch: issue20

## Author
With best regards, Mykola Afanasiev!
